Greetings to all fellow practitioners of the
Dharma. Respectfully, today we begin our
gathering for the week of the
Buddha's
commemoration of the birthday of Manjushri Bodhisattva.
To contemplate and reflect, let me
briefly
introduce Manjushri Bodhisattva. Manjushri Bodhisattva,
often
abbreviated as "Manjushri," meaning "Wonderful Virtue," is a Bodhisattva symbolizing wisdom,
one of the
most important Bodhisattvas in Buddhism.
As the third son of a king, he was a
prince.
He made offerings to the Buddha and vowed to save sentient beings. The Buddha prophesied that
he would experience countless eons before becoming a Buddha in the
pure and undefiled world of the Jewel of Wisdom, belonging to the
southern realm. This Manjushri
appears in almost all the
important scriptures of Mahayana Buddhism: the Avatamsaka Sutra, the
Shurangama Sutra, and the
Lotus Sutra, as one of the closest figures
to Shakyamuni Buddha. Respectfully,
all practitioners.  Fellow practitioners, because we are
Buddhists who have awakened the Bodhi mind,
we must learn to understand the vows and aspirations
of the Bodhisattvas. This
learning will
benefit us in this life,
starting today, as the first day of our practice of the
Bodhisattva Manjushri Sutra, which describes the
Bodhisattva's talents. This sutra was compiled
in the first volume of the
Manjushri Sutra, translated by the
Tripitaka Master Zhu Fahu of Yuezhi during the Western Jin Dynasty.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, in a
section of the sutra we will continue
today, the mind
will focus on the first section of the Sutra. For the second session, the mind will focus on the first section, and
in the
next session, the mind will focus on the second section,
reading the Sutra of the
Buddha. This is a short excerpt, a brief reminder: It goes
like this: Once upon a time, the Buddha was traveling and teaching
at the monastery in the Jetavana Garden of
Anathapindika in the country of Shevati, together with a great assembly of Great
Bhikkhus.
1,250 and 10,000 Bodhisattvas. Now
the Buddha is seated on his throne in the Kīlīla lecture hall, preaching the Sutra to
hundreds of thousands of
countless beings seated in a circle. At
that time, Bodhisattva Manjushri, along with
500 Bodhisattvas and the deities Brahma, the Four
Heavenly Kings, and their retinues,
came to the Buddha, bowed in reverence,
circumambulated three times, and then sat to one
side. "Venerable assembly, here is the
location of the Jeta Grove
and the country of the Six Vedas. We have
1,250 monks and 10,000 Bodhisattvas. The Bodhisattvas and the deities, the Four
Heavenly Kings, and
their retinues, came together. At
what time did Manjushri arrive and
greet the Buddha? Then, sitting to one side, with a clear mind, Manjushri, in
private contemplation, continued reading.
Bodhisattva
Manjushri asked the Buddha, "What Dharma did the World Honored One just preach? And why are you standing in the
middle of the heavens?" "We will follow your
teachings and... Venerable assembly, standing in
the middle of the heavens is one..."  The title of
the Buddha means that
when the Buddha was revered and
worshipped by the gods, they stood among the most revered of the gods. The wise and powerful Bodhisattva Subhuti, a majestic and awe-inspiring being,
addressed Bodhisattva Manjushri. "Just
now, the Buddha taught about the
deeds of his disciples. Now, I respectfully request that the Venerable One
speak about the Bodhisattva's conduct."
In this assembly, there is the Venerable Subhuti. The wise and
powerful Bodhisattva Subhuti
addressed Bodhisattva Manjushri. "Just now,
the Buddha taught about the
deeds of his disciples. Now, I respectfully request that the
Venerable One speak about the Bodhisattva's conduct." Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners,
Subhuti is one of the ten
great disciples of the Buddha. He is the
foremost in understanding emptiness, meaning that with his wisdom,
he always brings all phenomena to the state of
emptiness. It is from this meaning of emptiness that
sentient beings will move away from material things to
achieve liberation, abandoning
all self-attachment and attaining enlightenment. Therefore,
Subhuti is a being of
exceptionally superior wisdom, because
this emptiness is difficult to
enter and cannot be used by those who
are  Those with low foundations can understand, listen,
and practice. When we
find something difficult to understand, we
don't listen, so it's called difficult to listen, difficult to
understand, and
difficult to practice. But for
those who practice well, they can attain enlightenment, and it becomes
easy to listen, easy to understand, and easy to
practice. And those who find it easy to listen, easy to understand, and easy to
practice are very likely to attain enlightenment. That's the
theory, not the case.
It's like saying, "If you're short on food, you'll eat at the restaurant." Knowing this, I
respectfully address the esteemed Dharma friends in a gathering.
Usually, after the Buddha finishes his teachings, he allows
his disciples to discuss among themselves. He might have his disciples explain
a part of it to showcase their wisdom. Therefore,
in the
Buddha's Dharma assembly, sometimes the
Buddha teaches, sometimes he has Sariputta teach, and sometimes he has Moggallana
teach. This means that the
part of the teaching produced by the Buddha
was to enlighten sentient beings. Therefore, the Buddha was
full of compassion,
allowing sentient beings to clearly see the talent and wisdom
of the supreme masters.  In Buddhist teachings,
therefore, here, Manjushri was
asked by Subhuti, so
Subhuti said, "It is a good place to ask questions of the Buddha's power." He replied
to Bodhisattva Manjushri, "This place has been given
permission by the Buddha to ask anything."
Subhuti then asked about the conduct of a
Bodhisattva. We remember that
Subhuti asked about the conduct of a Bodhisattva.
Manjushri replied, "All that
the Sravakas and Pratyekabuddhas have practiced is
not the Dharma instrument of a Bodhisattva. Why does the wise man
ask such a question?"
This is a repetition of Subhuti's question.
This part is only
known to the Bodhisattvas themselves. Subhuti asked, "The
practices that the Sravakas and
Pratyekabuddhas have practiced are not the Dharma instruments of a
Bodhisattva, so why does the wise man ask such a question?"
Manjushri knew Subhuti's
question and asked in return, "
Why does the wise man ask such a question?" Subhuti replied, "I hope..."  The
venerable one explained clearly about that talent,
and we respectfully listened. "Yes, Venerable One," he said, "that
is, asking about the talent of the Bodhisattva Manjushri. The
wise man Subhuti
must know which people have
talent and which do not." Subhuti replied, "Venerable One,
those 'Sacred Clouds' each, through the sound of their teachings, when they
are liberated, how can we know
who is talented and who is not?
Please tell us, Venerable One, because
we very much want to hear."
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, as the
master has explained, those 'Sacred Clouds' are
those who, through listening to the Dharma, attain enlightenment and
liberation. Those 'Sacred Clouds'
are called teachers who have emerged from the Dharma, and
we, as lay practitioners, are also in that category.
We, through
listening to the Buddha's teachings, attain enlightenment and understanding. Through the encouragement and
guidance, we
practice, and because of practice, we are
liberated from the clouds of delusion,
liberated from the defilements of mind, afflictions, and
suffering. We are liberated from the words that
they bring us back to us.  This is
also called entering the ranks of the Sravakas.
So here, the question is, among these
Sravakas, how can one distinguish between
those with talent and those without?
Here is the answer from the Venerable Manjushri:
The Venerable Manjushri replied, "
Venerable Subhuti,
there are those who originate from ignorance and are
not talented in
Buddhism. Even if light were to shine from that darkness, it would
still fall back into
darkness. Saving sentient beings cannot be
combined with darkness. This is the
first practice that the Venerable
Manjushri pointed out: those who
originate from ignorance and are ignorant
must understand that their nature is one of greed and desire. Their nature is
very greedy, hence
called 'ignorance and delusion.' Because of this heavy burden of greed and delusion, they are trapped by greed, hatred, and delusion. When
this greed, hatred, and delusion cease, it manifests as the five desires:
wealth, beauty, fame, and food. Such a person is very
greedy and deeply attached to these desires. Therefore, it is said that those who originate from
ignorance
and are not truly talented are not truly talented.  Even those with talent
in Buddhism, if a
light were to shine in that darkness, they would
still fall back into darkness. For example, there are
people who go out to practice Buddhism, but upon
entering it, they become
greedy for wealth, lust, fame, food, and
water—that is, they hoard and
use the material possessions of the Three Jewels, not
serving their own liberation or the liberation of
sentient beings. They are greedy for business, chasing
after fame and fortune. They are greedy for food, wanting to eat three, four, five, six, seven, or eight different flavors a day, not caring about the lives of sentient beings. They engage in all sorts of depraved acts. Therefore, even if a little light of
Buddhist Dharma were to shine upon them,
that light would disappear and
vanish in these ignorant and foolish people.
These ignorant and foolish people would be
unable to save sentient beings. That's
why the Buddha said that saving sentient beings
cannot be combined with darkness.
Everything that exists is meant to create
talented individuals who are instruments of the Dharma in Buddhism.
So, we now know what the
Buddha said to us.  We have returned to one happiness, and
yet today
we speak of regretting that everything we currently possess is aimed at
creating a higher level of Dharma-wielding in
Buddhism. Everything we currently possess, including everything
we hear and learn
from the karmic connection of this enlightened being,
can also enable us to
become a talented practitioner in the Dharma. Talent,
that is, is called Dharma-wielding. A
person who possesses the Dharma, a person who knows how
to practice the Dharma, is called Dharma-wielding, or
skillful, with a clear
mind and insightful understanding. Continuing on,
Subhuti must reach a level of
Dharma-learning and attain the achievement of
seeing all sentient beings with boundless awareness and understanding.
Respectfully, dear Dharma friends,
here he speaks of the achievement of Dharma-learning
and the recognition of
that achievement. It is: seeing all
sentient beings with boundless awareness and
understanding, meaning seeing all sentient beings—
numerous, immeasurable, boundless—but without
attachment. There is no clinging, no
attachment, no defilement. And
within this attachment, sentient beings have both
purity and impurity.
For example...  I accept that this person is
good, that person is
bad. This object is something
else. People and objects are not
equal; there is a flash of insight. As
for those who have achieved mastery of the Dharma, they
don't have that preconceived notion.
Then there's this: "I should behave this way
because it's my body, that I should
behave that way because it's a fragmented mind." I'm saying this so
we can easily understand, but the
meaning is very broad. The mind's awareness and the
complete contemplation are only shared at our level of
understanding so we can practice. But
the determination to practice the Dharma without attachment
lies within the mind that has awakened the ego. It
belongs to the state of Prajna, not seeing oneself,
not seeing sentient beings, all are one. That's what it is. It's
called the
achieved mastery of the Dharma, the mind's awareness and complete contemplation.
Recalling the words of Manjushri, one must
reach the level of practice and mastery of the Dharma,
seeing all sentient beings with
non-attachment. If one likes
this, then what is this wisdom of non-attachment manifested?
The mind's awareness and complete contemplation... (continued from the Sutra of
Will)  That person is fearful, bored, and
afraid of all defilements in the three realms,
lacking any enjoyment whatsoever. That is
not the mark of a talented practitioner of the Buddha's teachings.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, the
Bodhisattva's understanding is very profound and vast.
If a person attains the Dharma,
they will no longer fear the
defilements of the three realms.
But if someone is fearful,
bored, and afraid of the three realms, they are
not a person who has achieved enlightenment through the
Dharma; they are not a person
with talent in the Dharma. A mind that reflects the state of mind
is a
story about myself. It happened a
long time ago, I don't remember the exact year,
but back then I was doing my
duties. It was probably around
2000 or 2011,
around 6 or 6:30 PM. It was getting dark, and
I was walking alone on the street. I saw
everyone
busy at that time,
everyone was returning from the market to take care of
their families. That is, the state of mind reflected in the
Bodhisattva's mind as I walked and observed.  Everyone
seems preoccupied with their
current livelihood,
constantly focused on the
present moment, without a hint of
letting go.
Well, it's precisely because of this kind of observation and thinking that the
mind, even with a little effort, can avoid
the feeling of
weariness and fear of the world.
What kind of fear is it when the world fears? Fear is about
cultivating Bodhicitta. I
also learn from the
Bodhisattvas, vowing to practice
Buddhism and dedicate myself to all sentient beings.
When will this end?
These are people who
must understand this: they
have no connection to the world,
no knowledge of true happiness. And then there are the
countless insects and other creatures, the fish—
a vast ocean—and the
invisible beings. How tiring it is! When will we ever
rest? We'll never reach our
destination,
endlessly wandering.
Therefore, we'll take a very
long journey, carefully observing the worries and attachments
in everyone's minds, and thus we can
avoid the feeling of weariness and
fear of the world.  Ah,
and
there is a section that follows,
abandoning the fear of worldly things, fearing the
world, and returning to upholding the
Bodhi Vow one has made. Therefore, it is
said here that if that person is fearful, bored, and afraid of
all
defilements, fearing the three realms, and has
no joy whatsoever, then they
are not a talented person in the
Dharma. Here, we are talking about what joy is. Joy
is the determination to resolve to
bring happiness and
liberation to sentient beings in their suffering. That is what is
called a
Bodhisattva with a beautiful mind. That is what is meant by those who
can achieve some degree in the study of Dharma,
not just
memorizing all the scriptures
and getting this or that degree in Buddhism. It is
not yet like that. It must be in
this vast Bodhi Mind, the paths of the mind.
If in the future, one has not practiced for thousands of
eons, circulating throughout the three
realms without fear of the three poisons of greed and hatred.
If one remains carefree and joyful in the cycle of birth and
death, as if strolling through all the lecture
halls, gardens, zoos, and official places
without six duties, then that is called a
talented person in the Buddha's teachings.
Here, the scriptures say, "
Yes, if in future lives, one has not practiced for
thousands of eons, circulating throughout the
three realms, and yet is fearless, fearless of
what, fearless of the three poisons of greed, hatred, and delusion, then,
esteemed fellow practitioners, fearless
of the three poisons of greed, hatred, and delusion of sentient
beings, not of oneself. If
one's own three poisons of greed, hatred, and delusion are to be recognized,
then it is not right for oneself. We must be fearless
towards the three poisons of greed, hatred, and delusion
of sentient beings.
We should observe the three poisons of greed, hatred, and delusion of sentient beings, and approach them while remaining
carefree and joyful in the cycle of birth and death, as if
strolling through all the lecture halls,
gardens, and zoos. Esteemed fellow practitioners, we
stroll through the lecture halls,
gardens, and zoos, that is, we go
sightseeing everywhere. We really
enjoy it, don't we? Note to the Bodhisattvas..."
The Bodhisattvas, facing the three realms of greed, hatred, and delusion, are
also joyful. But what about
us? If sentient beings haven't yet developed greed,
we are already more greedy; if sentient beings haven't yet developed hatred, we are already
more hateful. Sentient
beings have
n't even shimmered yet, but we are already more deluded,
more attached,
or perhaps, even if people don't like a
Buddhist, they
already like them—is that delusion? That's why
we know that
the
Bodhisattva's mind is like that. So,
would that be called a talented person
in Buddhism?
Here, the mind's illumination and complete contemplation will
conclude this part so that we can
understand this: Firstly, the mind of a
Bodhisattva is fearless towards the world.
They see many sentient beings,
many unenlightened beings,
but they still develop the Great Bodhi Mind, vowing to attain
enlightenment. They are not afraid of all sentient beings. Even if they
enter the cycle of birth and death, even if they
return to this world to endure all suffering,
they still
receive suffering instead of suffering. The cycle of
birth and death is suffering.
Yes, we must endure the changing
weather, the
blows
from all beings outside,
all that suffering. We endure all that suffering
for a single desire: to attain
enlightenment for ourselves, and then to share what
we have attained with all
beings in the
world. So here, in
this moment, we should contemplate this. The
first and
second points
are that those with talent in the Buddha's teachings
are those who face the greed, hatred, and delusion of
beings
without fear.
I am
not afraid, nor am I afraid of
entering the cycle of
birth and death.
Yes, for self-benefit and benefiting others. The second point is that
we do not tremble before the greed, hatred, and delusion of beings.
We observe this:
regarding things that are true, we
dare to speak the truth. The conduct of a
Bodhisattva is like this.
In the Dharma assembly,
there are things that are not in accordance with the Dharma, but
we must speak the truth
to build the Dharma assembly, to help
everyone practice the Dharma of Restoration, that is, to
help everyone attain enlightenment and liberation.  If
the club has anything that's wrong,
we must speak the truth
to help everyone abandon their mistakes.
Regarding the ego,
yes, many of our Buddhists still have eyes, and
many
know this but are afraid to speak out. Through
this lesson today, we will put
aside that fear, that
fear of being harmed. That is
called cherishing the ego, cherishing
oneself, fearing harm.
This kind of fear is not suitable for those who have
made the Bodhi vow, those who have walked
the path of aspiration and practiced the
Bodhisattva path. It's not suitable because they are
afraid of what people will say about them, afraid of being
slandered, afraid of damaging their reputation.
That's the essence. They only fear harming their reputation.
Here, it means they are ignorant and foolish,
so they only fear harming their wealth, beauty, fame, and possessions. They don't
fear harming everything. Being ignorant and
foolish is not the kind of person who contributes
talent to the Dharma. To be a
talented person in the Dharma, one must have a mind and not fear
birth and death.
When birth is revealed, one
must awaken oneself.  Another benefit of forgiveness
is not nurturing
fear, attachment, or ego. We must practice
speaking the truth
with a kind heart,
contemplating and knowing the truth. This will
benefit sentient beings, benefit ourselves, and benefit
ourselves in the sense that speaking the
truth without stumbling will create the karmic conditions to
become a
talented person in the Dharma. To become a talented person in the Dharma, we
must speak the truth without fear. These are
two points we need to contemplate and
reflect on during this meditation session
in the Dharma hall and club. Then
we will also speak the truth about the Buddha,
about the Dharma, about the truth of the enlightened being, the
only one who can help sentient
beings escape the cycle of birth and death and
attain happiness. We will speak the truth about the Dharma, the
Dharma of the Buddha, the only method that allows sentient beings to
practice and
escape suffering. We will speak about the Sangha, about the
noble conduct of the monks that benefits both humans and celestial beings. We will
also speak about the Dharma, about
our own practice and transformation of karma,
so that everyone can practice the Dharma for generations to come.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, yesterday there was a
You asked about the Tâm Chiếu Hoàn Quán incident, and it was
related to the news report about our temple in 2019
and the Lao Động newspaper reporting on it. She
stood up and spoke the truth about
her transfer. If she gave her
address and phone number,
she would be subjected to terrible attacks, receiving
abusive messages and requests to enter codes,
to the point where she didn't even dare
answer the phone. Then,
gradually, people started
calling her, and
she shared her story.
She also explained the practices
she followed,
guided by the temple and the club, and
people have given her some feedback.  The person who asked you said that
people are changing their karma, but
they are still worried that
people will call again and have
negative feelings. That kind of opinion
will lead to a complete realization. It's not a karmic
connection in this lifetime that you have, it's not from a previous life where you had a karmic connection to
practice and had
good karma, and now it's
manifesting as a karmic connection. Speaking the truth and praising the
Buddha's teachings—
how can that be called praising the Buddha's teachings? The Buddha's teachings are about
saving suffering. When we practice, we
see that we are freed from suffering to some extent. When
we tell people about it, that's called
praising the
Buddha's teachings, praising the true Dharma of the Buddha.
So we must leave behind all that
fear. That person is very afraid, threatening, cursing,
insulting, and even cursing the whole family and
everyone else. It's terrible. Overcome all
fear for the benefit and happiness of sentient beings,
just to have the Buddha's teachings
praised and saved from suffering. From
the foundations of our fellow practitioners, we observe whether
we are afraid in praising the
Buddha's teachings or not, speaking the truth about practice and
turning back the clock.  Whether it's about ourselves and
others, and whether we've witnessed it or not, that
's the central point.
First, we need to contemplate the suffering in birth and
death. If we cultivate Bodhicitta,
we will experience the suffering in birth and death.
Second, we need to dare to speak the
truth so that everyone can practice the Six Harmonies,
benefiting everyone and liberating them
from those sufferings in the present, receiving the good karma of cause and effect.
Furthermore, we need to gain Bodhi for everyone
in the Dharma hall and the club.
Next, we need to dare to speak the truth about the Buddha,
Dharma, and Sangha. Yes, something like
that. And do we dare to speak the truth about
our own and others' karma transformation?
Do we dare to praise it? When
we accomplish all of that, our
contemplation helps us overcome all obstacles
in the meditation session. By
contemplating to overcome all
obstacles, we will receive a seed
of talent in the Dharma,
not fall into the state of
ignorance, fear, and desire. I
respectfully wish all fellow practitioners...  During the
meditation session, An Dinh attained
enlightenment and courageous diligence,
reciting "Namo Buddha Shakyamuni"
(music).